# Run-Time-and-Memory-Analysis-Data-Structures

What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
For this course, the problem we were trying to solve was to evaluate different data structures and their efficiency in iterating over, organizing, and returning data based on a given dataset.  Each week, we used a different data structure and applied it to sort, print, search, and remove data from a given dataset.  This allowed us to further examine each data structure and the different advantages and disadvantages of each.  With this, we were able to conclude which data structure we would need to use in our final project, which was to create a course planner for a mock university that would open a CSV file, read its contents, and return the courses for computer science and their respective prerequisites.  

How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
The way that I approached the problem was to complete a runtime analysis for each data structure that we had to practice with.  The main data structures we used were vectors, linked lists, hash maps, and Binary Search Trees.  For each structure, we worked with a single CSV file throughout each week and created code to do certain operations, such as search, print, order, and delete, for the given data in the CSV.  This gave me a good picture of how each data structure worked and how each was more or less complex.  For example, hash maps are good for quick search and insertions because they utilize key values for each piece of data.  However, when using hash tables, they can be more complex when collisions occur, which is when more than one piece of data has the same key. 
Binary Search Trees sort the data naturally using branches in which greater values are on the right and lesser values are on the left.  This makes searching and insertion more efficient, in which you can eliminate half of the data set based on its value.  They also make ordering much easier because of the traversal down each branch.  
It's good to understand each data structure to understand their complexities and their methods of implementation because each structure has its advantages and disadvantages, so it's important to evalutate them based on what you want from the data structure, whether it be speed and accuracy or quicker sorting algorithms, etc.  

How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?  THe way that I overcame roadblocks through these assignments was to take the time and undertsand the methodology behind each data structure to understand how they are implemented and how I can perform these different operations within them.  We had to utilize using nodes for more efficency and less memory usage so we could retrieve a piece of data by reference and not continue to make copies of that piece of data.  If I were unsure of how to implement a search or remove operation, I would look back at previous code examples and notes for implementation.  Specifically for the final project, i found the pseudocode we created for each data structure to be helpful because it helped in writing the code and reminding me of how to split the CSV and take certain tokens to store data such as course id, course title, and prerequisites.  

How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
This project has shown me more of the actual process in developing code from analyzing data strctures for the needs of the program to creating the pseudocode each week for the code implementation.  This made me realize the importance of planning out the code and creating pseudocode in order to have an efficent outline for your project.  This also allowed me to gain more C++ experience and more experience with pointers, which is a good skill to learn for memory conservation.  

How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
This project has helped me to develop code in an efficent manner and to utilize industry best practices like using classes and OOP to make code reuseable and be able to have others edit the code without having to redesign big chunks of code.  This project utilized a lot of functions outside the main program, which helps keep the main cpp simple and easy to use, while all the working code is hidden in functions, which is utilized for encapsulation.  We used structs to create a structure to hold course information and to hold node information, which helped to iterate through and piece together the data.  Separating different operations into specified functions definitely made it easier to read sections of the code and understand what they were doing.  
